Doc link fixes & enhancements to Bearer token authentication tutorial (#35849)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security-oidc-bearer-token-authentication-tutorial.adoc

Use the Quarkus OpenID Connect (OIDC) extension to secure a Jakarta REST application with Bearer token authentication.
The bearer tokens are issued by OIDC and OAuth 2.0 compliant authorization servers, such as link:https://www.keycloak.org[Keycloak].

For more information about OIDC Bearer token authentication, see the Quarkus xref:security-oidc-bearer-token-authentication.adoc[OpenID Connect (OIDC) Bearer token authentication] guide.

If you want to protect web applications by using OIDC Authorization Code Flow authentication, see the xref:security-oidc-code-flow-authentication.adoc[OpenID Connect authorization code flow mechanism for protecting web applications] guide.

== Prerequisites

:prerequisites-docker:
include::{includes}/prerequisites.adoc[]
* The https://stedolan.github.io/jq/[jq command-line processor tool]

== Architecture

This example shows how you can build a simple microservice that offers two endpoints:

* `/api/users/me`
* `/api/admin`

These endpoints are protected and can only be accessed if a client sends a bearer token along with the request, which must be valid (for example, signature, expiration, and audience) and trusted by the microservice.

> The bearer token is issued by a Keycloak server and represents the subject for which the token was issued.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Keycloak server issues the bearer token and represents the subject for which the token was issued.
```

Author: @MichalMaler - This suggestion changes the technical meaning. 

If the _Keycloak server represents the subject for which the token was issued_ and not the _bearer token_, then I will commit this change.

@sberyozkin - WDYT?

Reviewer 2: @michelle-purcell Good catch, yes, Michal's suggestion changes the technical meaning

> Because it's an OAuth 2.0 Authorization server, the token also references the client that acts on behalf of the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because it is an OAuth 2.0 Authorization server, the token also references the client acting on the user's behalf.
```

Any user with a valid token can access the `/api/users/me` endpoint.
As a response, it returns a JSON document with user details obtained from the information in the token.

> The `/api/admin` endpoint is protected with RBAC (Role-Based Access Control) which only users granted with the `admin` role can access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `/api/admin` endpoint is protected with RBAC (Role-Based Access Control), which only users with the `admin` role can access.
```

> At this endpoint, the `@RolesAllowed` annotation is used to declaratively enforce the access constraint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this endpoint, the `@RolesAllowed` annotation is used to enforce the access constraint declaratively.
```

== Solution

Follow the instructions in the next sections and create the application step by step.
You can also go straight to the completed example.

> You can clone the Git repository by running the command `git clone {quickstarts-clone-url}` or you can download an {quickstarts-archive-url}[archive].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can clone the Git repository by running the command `git clone {quickstarts-clone-url}`, or you can download an {quickstarts-archive-url}[archive].
```

    }
}
----
====
+
[NOTE]
====

> The main difference in this example is that the `@RolesAllowed` annotation is used to verify that only users granted with the `admin` role can access the endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main difference in this example is that the `@RolesAllowed` annotation is used to verify that only users granted the `admin` role can access the endpoint.
```

Reviewer: or the `_users with the `admin` role can access._` to be consistent with my first suggestion.

Author: ```suggestion
The main difference in this example is that the `@RolesAllowed` annotation is used to verify that only users with the `admin` role can access the endpoint.
```

 ** Accessing `/api/admin` returns `200`.
 ** Accessing `/api/users/me` returns `200`.

=== Run the Application in JVM mode

When you are done with developer mode, you can run the application as a standard Java application.

. Compile the application:
+
====
include::{includes}/devtools/build.adoc[]
====
. Run the application:
+
====
[source,bash]
----
java -jar target/quarkus-app/quarkus-run.jar
----
====

=== Run the application in native mode

You can compile this same demo as-is into native mode without needing any modifications.
This implies that you no longer need to install a JVM on your production environment.
The runtime technology is included in the produced binary and optimized to run with minimal resources required.

Compilation takes a bit longer, so this step is disabled by default.

. Build your application again by enabling the `native` profile:
+
====

include::{includes}/devtools/build-native.adoc[]
====
. After waiting a little while, you run the following binary directly:
+
====
[source,bash]
----
./target/security-openid-connect-quickstart-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner
----
====

=== Test the application

> For information about testing your application in developer mode, see the preceding <<keycloak-dev-mode>> section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For information about testing your application in devmode, see the preceding <<keycloak-dev-mode>> section.
```

Reviewer 2: I think `devmode` is a real word in the Quarkus vocabulary, @gastaldi @geoand is it the case ? I'm not sure `developer mode` works

Reviewer 3: I see us using `development mode` in other docs so it's probably best to be consistent

Reviewer 4: +1 to `Development mode`

Author: @sberyozkin , @gastaldi, @geoand - Thanks for flagging this and your comments.

As 'dev mode' is a proper noun defined by Quarkus and commonly used in this specialization,  I have now reverted back to `dev mode` for all instances except for the first one. 

My :tropical_fish: brain forgot about a similar discussion with Quarkus SMEs that came up earlier this year:

We concluded that to prevent ambiguity around the word `dev` (is it developer/development, it would be best practice to use the full form in the first instance on the page, for example, `development (dev) mode`, and use `dev mode` thereafter.

I will also clean up of other inconsistent instances across the other docs later **after 3.2 product GA** so that we don't create backport headaches. 

I updated the PR according to ^^. Please do shout if you disagree with this approach. Thanks again :green_heart:

Reviewer 2: Thanks @michelle-purcell @geoand @gastaldi
